1) do all corrections possible
2) edit citations
3) respond to spores on bark comment

Responses

Line 589, first comment:

With the editors'/reviewers' permission, I will respectfully decline to discuss in the manuscript Reviewer #3's suggestion that the description of some fungal species in wood as "core" species may actually be the result of contamination from spores on bark. I understand the reviewers concern but have the following response:
 
Bark and outer phloem was removed in stages, with a scalpel sterilized between cuts. Work was done on the bench but in a clean lab environment, with all work surfaces ethanol- and bleach-sterilized. Thus between each successive layer, incisions were made from a successively "cleaner" outer layer, therefore presumably pushing fewer mycelial stage fungi from the outermost exterior into each new cut surface. Ungerminated spore load is also assumed to have been greatly reduced by this process. 

While this not a completely perfect solution, endophytes are defined in this study only by their location in the host at the time of sampling - we are not trying to engage in any debates about the ecological definition of endophytism. The goal is to make the case for/against core members of a plant microbiome, and endophytic fungi are examined here with the hope that excluding most epiphyte mycelium and most deposited spores, we filter some of the massive noise of the microbiome. We assume that fungi that have penetrated outer host tissue and persisted enough to be sample by us are more likely to have some sort of ecologically meaningful symbiosis with their host. 

This same process of debarking was used for all wood samples regardless of tree species. If epiphytes were accidentally being sampled as endophytes, this was probably happening at more or less the same rate among all the trees species. These fungi are then subject to the same, fairly stringent statistical tests as all the others in the study. Thus, if an epiphytic fungus was "accidentally" detected here as core fungal associate, we can still be reasonably confident that it is highly cooccurring with a single species of host, and did not present often in the bark with other species in the study, making it interesting to the message of this study. By the same logic, it is unlikely that ungerminated fungal spores are being called as core fungi - we expect that spore deposition would occur without much host-preference 

Fungi described as core fungal OTUs were very likely not contaminants from the laboratory. They do not appear in any of several controls. Lab contaminants under these circumstances are not likely to show a taxonomic preference. If these fungi were common lab contaminants, they would have appeared at some level in samples from all/many hosts, not just Helicia formosana. This would have resulted in their removal as candidates for "core" status, as core species are only selected if they show strong cooccurrence patterns with particular host. 

If the reviewers feel strongly, I will include some of the above language in the manuscript. However, I'm aware that the manuscript is already quite long.

Line 589, second comment:

I would love to read and probably include the suggested citation. However, I cannot find it. I think the first author name is Pashitt, and I cannot find this author in volume 3 or issue 3 of Fungal Ecology for 2010.



